are we in the housing crisis part two
well depends where you look you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video we are going to
look at what's happening inside of real
estate right now today there's a very
big problem and we have to focus on that
and understand it and then sort of zoom
out to understand the full picture
because if we just keep our heads
focused on one point we have our
blinders on we're not going to see the
full picture I'm going to show you that
today beginning with this look at it uh
Barry Stern warns of more bank failures
every week maybe two a week can you
believe this so he's on this interview
this billionaire on the interview with
CNBC right and he's not mening words
there's no question about that
um you could see it in this there have
been bank failures
before I think it's pretty obvious that
Banks do fail it's not the first time
we've seen some bank failures to expect
more wouldn't be out of the
ordinary but here here we go industry
experts have warned about potential
issues at Regional Banks due to
underwater real estate loans with some
predicting consolidation of banks in the
coming years so far this year there's
only been one bank failure Republic
First Bank in April he's got a hard task
with the blunt tool and the consequence
is real estate markets are taking it on
on the chin because rates Rose so fast
we could have handled this but we
couldn't handle it this fast the $ 1.9
trillion dollar of real estate loans
that's a fragile animal right now all
right lowering interest rates could help
alleviate the pressure on these banks by
increasing the value of their assets so
what happened during this time
was you had interest rates that were
super below and so you had companies
like svb Silicon Valley Bank they were
buying mortgage back Securities that
were giving some return if you were on
this channel you may remember I was
talking about the negative interest rate
bearing assets
okay I was you know trying to struggle
for the word of what they call that they
call it an asset
okay but basically imagine you're buying
a bond from Germany wherever it was
actually giving you basically nothing
nothing in return or negative and so
these
companies if you would say well why why
would they buy that well they had to
look around and they would say okay we
need some return why do we need any
return is that because they're
Corporation this and that no no they
have to give their clients something
right okay you hold money with us we
give you a little bit of something right
even if it's a small amount so they have
to make more than that in order to give
that to you they got to make money
somewhere right and so they were getting
these mortgage back Securities now what
happens well interest rates start Rising
so you remember that stuff we bought
during that very like super low um
interest rate time frame yeah well that
stuff has much less value today and so
we can take the loss sell right here
or we can hold on to it until maturity
and and make that little bit of cash so
they were in this dilemma a lot of
companies found themselves in this
predicament these Financial companies
because the times were 0% interest rates
and then things change really fast and
they go uhoh what do we do now that's
what's happening right here for a lot of
these Financial companies that's what
he's talking about that is the concern
all right um that's not a rent that's an
explanation all right so you could see
Powell recently acknowledged that
mounting bad commercial real estate
loans could cause some bank failures but
maintain that the overall system oh of
course not at risk the FED is working
with lenders to ensure that they are
prepared for potential losses and
financial Regulators are closely
monitoring the situation just like they
were in 2007 and just like they were in
2008 right no no reason to
worry um so let me show you something
you could see some banks either fail or
at least you know dip below their
minimum Capital
requirements most of the banks aren't
insolvent or even close to insolvent
they're just stressed huh that means
there'll be fewer bank failures but it
doesn't mean that communities and
customers don't get hurt by that
stress all right so what's happening
here is we have have Regional Banks
smaller banks that are in the biggest
trouble right now no
question and in the end of this if
you're just like okay well what does
that mean that means the JP Morgans and
the Goldman sachs's and the Bank of
America and all the big establishments
will be buying the assets the good
assets of these companies that fail so
you have a consolidation of power and
control into the hands of the few the
same shareholders of the Federal Reserve
oops not allowed to talk about the FED
forgot okay the shareholders of the
FED
are getting richer and and attaining
more
power who like what is the significance
of these re they're small so why are
they significant well they're small
but actually an overwhelming
majority of the loans that are happening
with commercial real
estate think office think malls think
all of that that's done with these
Regional lenders small so-called small
lenders so that's where the biggest pain
is right now today they collapse not
into nothingness it collapses into the
lap of JP
Morgan this is where we have an
issue why the FED expects more bank
failures the FED itself is saying it I
just wanted to make that clear Jerome
Powell has to say one thing or whatever
but you see these fed reports that come
through and so on they're not like
they're not excusing the fact that you
know what they're doing with interest
rates does create a problem there's no
question Toronto has a con concerningly
High number of condos sitting on the
market now this is just funny to
me but there are cranes like scattered
across the skyline way more condos are
going up and let me tell you they will
be bought I could see that those being
bought but they'll sit empty they'll sit
empty so this is a it's a weird scenario
we'll see what happens depends on
interest rates depends on things and of
course uh a lot of them are actually
being sold right now or at least they're
trying to be sold because uh they have
to sell prior to the new tax laws that
come into effect in
June delinquencies of floating rate
office commercial mortgage back security
loans hit 20% fixed rate loans at
4.7% so it depends on what you look at
there um floating rate or or variable
rates depending on the country so if you
look at in the United States different
story a lot of people in the US they
don't understand
this so a few things a few things when
you look at the way real estate is in
the United States I can get a loan for
30 years and pay one interest rate that
entire
time in Canada in Australia and a lot of
other places it's actually every let's
say 3 to 5 years where I have to then
then go back and okay go back to the
bank okay I need another loan for 5
years what's the interest rate now this
creates a problem for people during
those times in the US it's it's way
better way better okay because if
interest rates if you got it up here but
interest rates went down to here I can
always basically renegotiate I can I can
break that contract and it's okay
there's a way to do that right could
refinance
but the problem here is okay when
interest rates are moving down for years
and years and years and years people
were just saying variable rates the best
I'm always going to get a cheaper thing
at the end of that three to five year
period because rates keep going down and
then rates went up and a lot of people
were like hey wait a minute um they're
not going to I know a lot of people okay
even in the financial industry that were
saying rates would never go up r would
never go up a lot of YouTubers never
mind were saying rates will never go up
then they started to go up they said
they're not going to do it they're not
going to do much uh their subscriber
numbers kept going up along with
interest rates but that's okay right uh
Hey because hey nobody nobody knew that
would
happen regardless looking at this here
you know that there are going to be more
failures it's a simple matter of fact I
wanted to stress the fact that we're not
at the financial crisis housing crisis
levels
additionally commercial mortgage back
Securities or commercial real estate I
should say is generally on a shorter
time frame you you're not getting you
know 40-year loans with the commercial
stuff you're going to get shorter time
frames that paper is constantly being
rotated over nobody's ever paying that
debt it just gets renegotiated all the
time okay that's the way that works this
is just showing us comparing the overall
delinquency rate it's still like it's
nowhere near the bottom
certainly uh but you know you can see
it's it's we're way off the top but it
has accelerated okay so keep that in
mind office loan defaults near historic
levels with billions on the line office
is in such a bad
circumstance they're not paying it back
okay you've got loan defaults
foreclosures other forms of distress at
the highest amount since
2012 and that tells us that there is a
very clear issue going on today and that
go there's tons of cities where this is
being an issue this is showing us an
apartment complex in Tampa Florida sells
at a massive $32 million loss in just
two years of ownership the previous
owner paid 115 million all right they
sold it for 83 million that is a problem
all right but the bad YouTubers would
say well this is this is an opportunity
because you can do tax loss harvesting
right or you that's like punching
somebody in the stomach and telling them
it's a it's a great way to you know I
don't even know I don't even know
why I don't know
anyway I'm just so I'm so upset with the
the terrible information that's being
fed to people just
anyway you need financial education I
have tons of that free on my website go
to Compass go through Compass get the
free information if you know it already
share it with your friends and family
because in that it doesn't link to my
YouTube doesn't link anywhere else
nobody would even know that I'm a
YouTuber if you go to that the money
gps.com
Compass get that Financial education we
need that that's that's number one get
out of bad debt as best you can do you
know somebody in bad debt if you can try
to help them up out of the bad debt bad
debt okay we need to renegotiate our
debt as best we can and by the way I
just talked about this with my finance
Friday
crew all of the services that you have
whether it's energy I I told people over
and over again during 2020 as I I saw
what was going to happen I said go to
your power company right now and
negotiate the best deal you can and lock
it in for as long as they'll let you
lock it in for people were messaging me
after that and saying if if you didn't
tell me that and if I didn't go through
with that because of course it's up to
you to do it I would have been in big
trouble and I'm so grateful that I have
my voice out here to do whatever I can
and and that helped people and that
makes me feel really good
good do what you can okay
um that's all that's all I'm going to
say just do what you can okay it's going
to be we're we're in for
some we're in for tough times okay all
right take care